Many religions teach that God condemns
the wicked to eternal torment after they die
and hope that this fear of torment
prevents them from doing bad.
Does God really punish people after they die?
The Bible reassures us
that the dead are unconscious
and that “[they] know nothing at all.”
If the dead are unconscious,
they cannot suffer.
Does that mean God does not
punish wicked people at all?
No.
God explained to the first human couple
how they would be punished
if they rebelled against him.
God said nothing about torment or hell.
He simply said:
“You will certainly die.”
And after being expelled
from the garden of Eden,
that is exactly what happened
to wicked Adam and Eve
—they passed away and became dust.
The Bible says that after death,
one is no longer accountable
for past mistakes
because “the one who has died
has been acquitted from his sin.”
But there is an even greater reason
why a hell of torment could never exist.
The Bible tells us:
“God is love.”
Would a loving God command
that sinners be tormented,
not just for minutes, but for all eternity?
Consider the following:
In Bible times, God condemned the practice
of sacrificing children
in the fire to false gods.
He said that such a cruel deed
‘never even entered his heart.’
We hate the idea of such brutality
because we are made in the image
of a loving, merciful God.
Clearly, we do not need to worry
that our dead loved ones
might be suffering punishment somewhere.
The Bible tells us
that they are at peace, at rest.
But why do good people die?
What happens to them when they die?
What hope is there for our dead loved ones?
To learn more, go to jw.org
and search for these topics
or fill in the online request
for one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
to contact you.